oil tumbling below $13 a barrel today
and tonight we have unbelievable images
from across the world lines and lines of
tankers at sea our own Brian Sullivan
has more on what is an extraordinary
time Brian in the oil patch it really is
Scott a good evening everybody I mean
these are sites that have never been
seen and oil tankers stretching for
miles off the coast of Long Beach
California outside of Los Angeles call
this the petroleum paparazzi if you will
this is Coast Guard footage taken a
couple of days ago you can see there
within sight of the shore now look
closely at these ships some of them are
full depending on where they sit in the
water some of them are empty but it is
truly stunning why are they sitting off
the coast of California because many of
these ships are being used as floating
storage as you have heard the world of
washing oil running out of places to put
it and those big ships are one place to
do it in fact get this guys the going
rate the Charter one of those massive
ships was about $25,000 a day a couple
of months ago today you want to charter
one of those to sit off the coast of LA
and store oil it could cost you upwards
of two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars now as a wash and oil as the
United States is with oil prices falling
there is unbelievably guys more on the
way according to our partners taker
trackers a marine traffic taking a look
at satellite images there are upwards of
40 plus million more barrels of oil
mostly coming from Saudi Arabia
currently in the Suez Canal there are
satellite images and maps showing those
red dots those are ships most of them a
Saudi who are offloading oil because
they need to lighten up to get through
the Suez Canal they'll put the full
amount of oil back on and then steam
mostly toward the United States Scott as
you know the price of oil is collapsed
demand destruction has been rampant
driving flying shipping all reducing the
need for refined fuels and I think it's
probably pretty amazing Scott given
those sites that with the amount of
storage filling up within weeks in the
United States there is that much oil
still on the way amazing images
looks like the tankers themselves are
socially distancing Brian
with all that oil on the way that
doesn't sound like this situation is
going to get any better anytime soon
no it is not in fact many of the people
I know that you talk to a halftime
report that we talked to a worldwide
exchanges otherwise are saying it is
highly likely not a guarantee but likely
that the current oil contract with is
which is June could do what made it and
that is go negative the reason and
people find this hard to believe
here's the best I guess analogy I can
give you buy something online you want
it cost 30 bucks as the delivery guy is
walking up to your door you realize not
only do you have no place to put it but
it's gonna cost you money to keep it
somewhere in your house so you give the
FedEx guy say 50 bucks to take it away
that's effectively what the oil market
is done in going negative and given the
current situation Scott unless demand
picks up it is not out of the question
at all that oil prices go negative and
deeply negative yet again
you